Amy normally hated Monday mornings, but this year was different. Kamal was in her art class and she liked Kamal. She was waiting outside the classroom when her friend Tara arrived.

“Hi Amy! Your mum sent me a text. You forgot your inhaler. Why don’t you turn your phone on?” Amy didn’t like technology. She never sent text messages and she hated Facebook too.

“Did Kamal ask you to the disco?” Tara was Amy’s best friend, and she wanted to know everything that was happening in Amy’s life. “I don’t think he likes me,” said Amy. “And I never see him alone. He’s always with Grant.” Amy and Tara didn’t like Grant.

“Do you know about their art project?” asked Amy. “It’s about graffiti, I think,” said Tara. “They’re working on it at the old house behind the factory.” “But that building is dangerous,” said Amy. “Aah, are you worried he’s going to get hurt?" Tara teased. “Shut up, Tara! Hey look, here they come!”

Kamal and Grant arrived. “Hi Kamal!” said Tara. “Are you going to the Halloween disco tomorrow?” “Yes. Hi Amy,” Kamal said, smiling. “Do you want to come and see our paintings after school?” “I’m coming too!” Tara insisted.

After school, Kamal took the girls to the old house. It was very old and very dirty too. There was rubbish everywhere. The windows were broken and the walls were damp. It was scary. Amy didn’t like it. There were paintings of zombies and skeletons on the walls. “We’re going to take photos for the school art competition,” said Kamal. Amy didn’t like it but she didn’t say anything. “Where’s Grant?” asked Tara. “Er, he’s buying more paint.” Kamal looked away quickly. Tara thought he looked suspicious. “It’s getting dark, can we go now?” said Amy. She didn’t like zombies.

Then, they heard a loud noise coming from a cupboard in the corner of the room. “What’s that?” Amy was frightened. “I didn’t hear anything,” said Kamal. Something was making strange noises. There was something inside the cupboard. “Oh no! What is it?” Amy was very frightened now. “What do you mean? There’s nothing there!” Kamal was trying not to smile. Suddenly the door opened with a bang and a zombie appeared, shouting and moving its arms. Amy screamed and covered her eyes. “Oh very funny, Grant!” said Tara looking bored. Kamal and Grant started laughing. “Ha ha, you were frightened!” said Grant. "Do you like my zombie costume?” Amy took Tara’s arm. “I can’t breathe,” she said. Kamal looked worried now. “Is she OK? It was only a joke.” “No she’s not OK, you idiot. She’s having an asthma attack and she forgot her inhaler.” Tara took out her phone. “I’m calling her dad.”

Next evening was Halloween. The girls were at the school disco. “Are you better now?” asked Tara. “I’m fine,” said Amy. “I think it was the smell of paint that started the attack.” Tara looked around. “So, where are the zombies?” “I don’t know, I don’t want to see Kamal again,” said Amy. “Come on, let’s dance!”

Amy and Tara were dancing when Grant arrived, looking worried. “Hi, someone stole my phone. Have you seen Kamal? He said he was coming here at eight o’clock. Can you phone him?” “Go away, idiot!” Tara didn’t stop dancing. Grant looked upset. “Tell him I’m looking for him,” he called as he left the disco. Tara really didn’t like Grant.

Just then, Tara’s phone rang. She looked at it. “Ha!” she said, “I don’t believe it!” “What is it?” asked Amy. “Kamal just sent a text to everyone. Listen!” Tara read out Kamal’s message.

“I’m at the house. I can’t move. Please call an ambulance. My battery is running out.”

The girls didn’t stop dancing. Lots of their friends saw Kamal’s message too, but Tara told everyone it was just a joke. They all ignored it.

The next morning, Amy’s mum and dad were listening to the radio. “Is Amy up yet?” Dad asked. “No, she’s tired,” said mum, turning the volume up on the radio.
Everyone may be on their smartphones all day every day nowadays, but there’s something uniquely charming about sitting down to read an actual book. There’s also something particularly effective about it for those of you keen on improving your English skills.

I’m a Spanish speaker by birth, but I’ve been passionate about English for years now. My secret tip for making faster progress with the language is reading lots of English novels and then reading some more. When it came to finding books that were both educational in terms of the language level AND interesting in their own right, I realized I needed to go beyond the obvious choices and decided to draw up my own list.

Happy reading and happy learning English!

1. 40 Rules of Love (by Elif Şafak)
“Every true love and friendship is a story of unexpected transformation. If we are the same person before and after we loved, that means we haven’t loved enough.”

This novel will not only transform your English, but your life; it’s currently my favorite book. It’s beautifully written and the Penguin edition ensures that even relative beginners get a good grasp of the story and the meaning it conveys. If you’re curious about spiritual matters, this is your pick.

2. How to be a woman (by Caitlin Moran)
“Why on earth have I, because I’m a woman, got to be nice to everyone?”

This isn’t your topical feminist manifesto. Caitlin Moran is a powerful, compelling writer and doesn’t mince her words. This book is perfect if you want to learn slang, smash the patriarchy (as any good feminist would!) and laugh while you’re at it.

3. The Perks of Being a Wallflower (by Stephen Chbosky)
“So, this is my life. And I want you to know that I am both happy and sad and I’m still trying to figure out how that could be.”

This book is the story of a smart and socially awkward teen struggling with mental illness, trying to find his place in the world. If you feel like jumping back to your high school days while brushing up on your teen slang, this one’s for you.

4. Deal Breaker (by Harlan Coben)
“Acceptance of the inevitable, a sign of a wise man.”

This is my favorite crime fiction series. Myron Bolitar, a retired pro-basketball player, solves crimes together with his eccentric best friend, Windsor “Win” Horne Lockwood III. This book is heavy on mysteries – being a crime novel and all – and sports jargon. Warning: if you’re one of those people who can’t put a book down once they’ve started, steer clear of this one.

5. Treasure Island (by Robert Louis Stevenson)
“Yo ho ho and a bottle of rum”

This book doesn’t really need an introduction – it’s a true classic, complete with pirates, sailors and adventures. It’s a great one for expanding your vocabulary, especially if you love to travel.

6. A Thousand Splendid Suns (by Khaled Khosseini)
“Marriage can wait, education cannot.”

This book offers up a story line like no other. Become immersed in the daily lives and hardships of Miriam and Laila as they struggle to find a future in Kabul. The English is simple enough for most learners, but still beautiful and challenging. And the book features characters you’ll never forget.
